>> Zac: Let's go ahead and
look at this together, shall we?
AJAX and WP, go ahead and
copy over all of these
3.1 through 3.2 files
into your plugins folder.
>> Zac: So again, we're copying just over
our 3.1 files, Into our plugins folder.
[COUGH]
And let's go into our plugins.
So, let's come down and
activate 3.1 jquery example.
All right and now again,
we need to make sure that we're not
opening the actual example
files that wherein the repo but
we're opening the ones that
are in our plugins directory.
So I'll just grab that and
pull it into my editor.
And now I've got my plugins here.
All right, so, in our README,
there's a few steps here.
Right, we've got to set up the enqueue
to pass in all the data, we've gotta
hook in our AJAX function,
we've gotta make the actual
AJAX call in our JavaScript, and
then we've gotta test out that it works.
So, let's start up by going into our
main plugin file ,we're gonna look for
our scripts find localized scripts and we
are basically just gonna make sure that we
are passing in the url we
need the total number of
likes that are currently in the data
base and then the nonce, okay?
So that's our first step,
we will open up main plugin
file
>> Zac: And
we already have this done for us.
So, nothing we need to change here.
And again,
because we've done this so much,
we won't go through the practice of
changing those values every time.
But what we do need to change,
is all of this.
So, let's just do some quick copy and
past here, make it easy.
We're gonna change ajax url to admin url,
admin ajax dot php,
total likes is equal to, and
this is why the options table is so
easy, look how easy it is to pull
in a value from the database.
Just get option and
then the option we want and
it was actually up here further in
our code, at the very top we see,
hey are there any likes currently and
if it's null then go ahead and
set likes equal to zero, so
that's how we get the number to start off.
Get option and add option are very
simple and if you ever want to start
storing stuff in the database,
little things, that's a really easy way.
And then finally we need
to create the WP nonce.
And again, I like to name them something
that is going to make sense for
what it is and sometimes I'll just add the
word nonce's even though it's repetitive.
Just to make it clear for
me what I'm working with,
show me what you're working with, okay.
So we've got all that set up, let's see,
the next step was to hook
in our AJAX function.
Okay, so this is gonna run
once our JavaScript executes.
And we want to find the add_action
function directly after jsforwp_add_like,
okay.
So let's go check that out.
Here's jsforwp add like, and
while we'll get to the add action in
a moment, but there's something up here.
Notice that check_ajax_referer
doesn't match what we just set it to.
So this name here, create_nonce,
needs to be the exact same as what
we see down here, nonce_to_check.
So paste that in, that works and
just to show you what this is
doing is saying is getting the value of
the database is increasing it by one and
then it's updating the option and
passing in the new number, and this could
definitely be consolidated a fewer
lines but just trying to make it clear.
And then we're saying
if this goes through,
so if the update passes then go ahead and
set my response
total likes to new likes and
set their response type equal to success.
So this is gonna be the data because
we have response total likes bein
json encoded, that will turn into response
dot total likes and response dot type.
When we get it back on the front end.
Now the last thing we have to
do is this wp_ajax_your_hook,
and your_hook right here, have to
both be changed to jsforwp_add_Like.
And what that's gonna do is say,
whenever there's an ajax request coming
in for this function then go ahead and
call this function, which is again
right here, super redundant but
this is just how Ajax works and
once you know these few steps, it's fine.
You'll also notice,
because I wanted to simplify this,
there's some extra code
that I'm not showing you,
that's put out into a little library
folder that we will ignore for now.
But just so you know, if you want to
explore some of the other stuff that's
going on, because there is a back end
page, and I'll show you that in a second.
But we won't go through all of the code,
it should already be working.
>> Zac: All right, so now we need
to come into our JS front end and
we've got some things to change here.
All right, so change the HTML value to
response total likes because we
set this up in the back end and
we passed it back here,
we could simple do this.
So response just like global
variables we set is available to us.
It's getting kicked back,
and now we need to.
>> Zac: Okay, this is gonna load
initially so when the page loads
is what determine what the total likes are
to start and then here's our ajax call,
and we need to update a few things, the
url, the data action and data _ajax_nonce.
Again, this is a little bit weird
format just keep that in mind.
So we'll change our URL.
>> Zac: That's gonna go to admin ajax.
We'll change our add_like
that was all ready.
And then our nonce is right here.
>> Zac: Okay, should we try it?
Who thinks it's gonna work?
Did we miss a step.
Let's come check our read me.
Changed all that stuff.
I think there's one last thing.
Once it is successful, then we want to
change the count to the total number.
So then we pass in response total like,
which again has been
Updated and given to us, so
that should fix everything.
Now let's go ahead into our site.
We activate 3.1 JQuery example.
>> Zac: And you'll love how much,
>> Zac: Broken this is,
okay, let's see what's going on.
Response is not defined in front end.
>> Zac: Yeah.
Because the first time we get it, it is
>> Zac: it's actually js for wp globals.
So the first time the page is loaded
this localized script kicks off but
it's important to note that
localized script is not updated
every time you make a new ajax call.
So, this is good for the first load of
the page but after that it's static and
doesn't get repushed out to the site.
So the first time we get the total count,
we have to do it that way.
And then the second time we
should be able to get response.
So sorry,
that instruction is a little off.
I’ll make sure to change
that in the examples.
Zero likes, [SOUND] look at me go.
No validation, I don’t even remember if
it’s set to you do have to be logged in.
So because it's relying on sending
out that nonsense stuff, it's
not going to let us perform this if we're
not logged in, which is a good thing.
But you'll also notice that,
on the back end now in our admin page,
we could reset it to 0.
So remember I said there's
this extra library folder.
And it's just the exact same code,
except showing you how to
reset all the data to 0.
And now if we look at our site,
it will be set back to 0 and
we could do the whole thing again.
So again, this code is going
to be something you wanna save
as an example because at some point,
you might need to use it.
But we're moving past this direction
in terms of architecture of how
we're interacting with Ajax it's
being driven a bit more API instead which
is what we'll look at moving forward.
But from here there are two
things that you could try.
The first is you can go back and look at
the library folder and
look at the plug in page.
And this has some code that is
running something very similar but
it's resetting everything
to zero using AJAX.
And there's a backend main JS.
Because what happens is sometimes folks
get like the code that shows, hey,
here's how you do this on the front
end but then it's confusing.
Like, I don't know how to translate that
to doing it on the backend in a plugin.
So I'm giving you both there And
then because,
>> Zac: jQuery is not everybody's jam,
there's also an Axios example.
So we won't go into that there and
that's kind of on your own to play with.
But I'll show you just one small piece
of code that's gonna be kinda the main
difference is that,
notice that this is called params.
I think that's basically it and then
it's using a slightly different format
in terms of how data is coming back and
how you access that.
So, those two are really the only things.
The rest is pretty much the same.
But these are the things
that have to be right.
Everything else you could swap out and
change to your heart's desire.
So at this point, we have so
confidently plowed through so much.
And everything else out from here
is gonna be looking at the API and
how do we get this in themes and
plug ins and decoupled apps, okay?